---
title: "Time?"
categories:
 - Poetry
tags:
 - poetry
header:
  teaser: https://live.staticflickr.com/6051/6273151680_a1488d2403_b.jpg
toc: false
---  
If I could measure time
not in terms of seconds, minutes, hours or days.
Just think about it, if I could measure time
not in terms of seconds, minutes, hours or days,
I would measure it in terms of flowers I smell,
dreams I remember,
candles I lighten,
sounds I hear,
energy I get,
feelings I develop…
Or maybe I could count how many times I smile,
or how many friends I make,
how many words I say,
how many ideas I think about…
perhaps time is how many times you breath in and breath out,
or how many times your heart beats…
or better I could measure time by the steps I take,
times I blink my eyes…
or rather how often I get inspired,
or feel a completely unfamiliar rhythm;
times I dance,
or fall in love with anything and anyone…
But then time wouldn’t be a pattern,
but something totally random
and definitely something I would be unaware of.
It wouldn’t follow any circular movement;
seconds would never be the same, just as they are.
We would call time with different words or sounds.
Or no,
we would simply feel the time,
no words or sounds needed.
Time would be the energy that never leaves your body,
but which you don’t realize.
Scattering and moving like arrows through your veins
like dauntless super fluid helium is moving on a surface.
Every time is a different time and
its naming would then correspond
to its interpretation and actuality…
Time is mendacious this second…
and every second…