---
title: "The author"
categories:
 - Poetry
tags:
 - poetry
header:
  teaser: https://live.staticflickr.com/6221/6273149358_859492f703_b.jpg
toc: false
---  

(2009)

Imagine something you can’t see
Imagine Me
I’m not a woman
nor a man
I’m not black, nor white or beige
not better than
you or any other human
I am not a learner
nor a pursuer;
knowledge is my addiction.
pursuing is my conviction.
I express
I don’t impress
I seek to understand
not to be understood
I always question
and did I mention
that I listen
to all vision?

Imagine something you can’t see
Imagine Me
I hold the cradle
that held you
when you couldn’t babble
a word or two
but remember
I’m not a man
nor a woman
I’m not black, nor white or beige
not better than
you or any other human.
I seek to understand:
why you call your MOTHERland?
but when you have that love atop
you call yourself a PATriot?

Imagine something you can’t see
Imagine Me
I come to America
like all others came before
to enjoy the land of the free
and forget the home of the sore
and when I come I wonder why
words start running dry
they have no significance
they lost importance
they start to contract
diffract
and then they crack
it’s all just a social artifact.
Remember
I’m not a man
nor a woman
I’m not black, nor white or beige
not better than
you or any other human.
So who am I?
I can say a woman
when I am a man
my words cannot tell
unless I misspell
but even so
I remain unknown.

Imagine something you can’t see
Imagine Me
I am my poetry
My poetry alone
and I know
you want to judge me
but you just cant see
my skin tone
it frustrates you
this baffling unknown.
But, forget about me
Imagine poetry
its accession
to a nation
how much depression
aggressive repression
and heavy oppression
it can question
yet am I, the author, ready
to fight already?
do I have a resolution
to stand up for the right revolution?
Remember
I’m not a man
nor a woman
I’m not black, nor white or beige
not better than
you or any other human.